.TH BURNCTL 1 "April 2026" "burnctl 0.3.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
burnctl \- unified AI coding agent usage dashboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B burnctl
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIPROMPT\fR]
.br
.B burnctl
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B burnctl
reads local session data and supported provider APIs to report usage, costs,
model breakdowns, and billing-period summaries for AI coding tools such as
Claude Code, Gemini CLI, Codex CLI, Aider, and OpenRouter.
.SH TOP-LEVEL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show the installed burnctl version.
.TP
.B \-\-claude, \-\-gemini, \-\-codex, \-\-aider, \-\-openrouter, \-\-local, \-\-opencode
Limit the report to the named agent.
.TP
.B \-\-all
Include all detected agents.
.TP
.B \-j, \-\-json
Emit machine-readable JSON.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-compact
Print a one-line summary.
.TP
.B \-\-full
Disable compact mode for the current run.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-simple
Hide all-time VALUE and ROI output.
.TP
.B \-\-detailed
Re-enable the all-time VALUE and ROI section.
.TP
.B \-\-color
Force ANSI colors on.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-no-color
Force ANSI colors off.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-theme \fITHEME\fR
Set the output theme. Themes include
.BR gradient ,
.BR classic ,
.BR colorblind ,
and
.BR accessible .
.TP
.B \-A, \-\-accessible
Render screen-reader friendly plain text.
.TP
.B \-L, \-\-top-mode
Enter a live auto-refreshing dashboard view.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-plan \fIPLAN\fR
Override the Claude plan for the current run.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-interval \fIINTERVAL\fR
Set billing interval for the current run. Common values:
.BR mo ,
.BR yr .
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-billing-day \fIDAY\fR
Set the billing start day for the current run.
.TP
.B \-P, \-\-period \fIPERIOD\fR
Choose which billing period to report:
.BR current ,
.BR last ,
or
.BR diff .
.TP
.B \-\-since \fIYYYY-MM-DD\fR
Start date for a custom date range.
.TP
.B \-\-until \fIYYYY-MM-DD\fR
End date for a custom date range.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-export [\fIFILE\fR]
Append report data to CSV. Defaults to
.IR burnctl.csv .
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B burnctl config
View or set persisted configuration values.
.br
Examples:
.RS
.PP
\fBburnctl config billing_day 17\fR
.PP
\fBburnctl config claude_plan pro\fR
.PP
\fBburnctl config claude_billing_day 10\fR
.PP
\fBburnctl config gemini_plan ai_pro\fR
.PP
\fBburnctl config gemini_billing_day 12\fR
.PP
\fBburnctl config codex_plan plus\fR
.PP
\fBburnctl config codex_billing_day 17\fR
.PP
\fBburnctl config billing_interval mo\fR
.PP
\fBburnctl config default_agents claude,gemini\fR
.PP
\fBburnctl config no_color true\fR
.RE
.TP
.B burnctl upgrade
Open provider billing or upgrade pages in the default browser.
.TP
.B burnctl setup openrouter
Install or inspect one-time OpenRouter live-tracking integration.
.TP
.B burnctl proxy openrouter
Run the local OpenRouter tracking proxy.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/burnctl/config.json
Persistent configuration.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/burnctl/openrouter-usage.jsonl
OpenRouter live request ledger.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
\fBburnctl\fR
.PP
\fBburnctl --claude --gemini\fR
.PP
\fBburnctl -p max5x -b 15\fR
.PP
\fBburnctl -P last\fR
.PP
\fBburnctl -j\fR
.PP
\fBburnctl proxy openrouter --doctor\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR python (1),
.BR pip (1)
